The magic Luz's abuela did...
I spoke to Jirou.
I touched him.
He was real.
Give her the baby in this
picture?
The magic only works if the
person in the image is dead.
Oh. Oh, God.
Is it Fourth of July?
No, it's August.
I go look.
No, don't go out alone.
Wait!
Oh...
Yamato-san...
Yamato-san, slow down.
Hey! Hey, son!
Sonny!
What's going on?
We did it!
What?
We got 'em!
We bombed the Japs!
Whoo!
We hit Hiroshima!
They'll have to surrender!
Subtitles by explosiveskull
www.OpenSubtitles.org
Señora, do you need help?
Aguayo?
We can take you there.
This is our daughter, Esperanza.
Get her inside!
What happened?
Yuko found us.
She's taken Luz and the baby.
- What?
- Let's get her to bed.
- We'll find her.
- Let's go bring her inside.
Hector,
can we borrow your truck?
Yes, yes, of course.
Why don't I come with you?
Stay with your grandmother.
Chester, watch out
for military tonight.
It's no place for Japanese folks
so close to Los Alamos.
Did something happen tonight?
In the war?
Do you know where Hiroshima is?
8:15 a.m. local time,
the United States
detonated a bomb
over the Japanese port city
of Hiroshima.
This is reportedly
the largest bomb
ever detonated in human history.
Luz...
Luz!
Yuko-san?
Oh, my god...
Luz...
The yurei.
She's taken him.
Where did she take him?
In the car.
The whole world's falling apart,
and people are celebrating.
As though a child in Hiroshima
had anything to do
with this war.
I wanted revenge once.
It consumed me.
I thought getting it
would ease things,
but I didn't feel any better.
Major Bowen want to kill you.
It was either him or you.
You did only thing you can.
But I didn't...
How did you...
Shh!
Only our own people know.
It's all right.
If WRA not find out by now,
they never will.
You see...
it easy to want vengeance.
Natural as death.
What about you?
I cry more tear
come back from camp
than at camp.
All we had...
gone.
Gone.
Give him to me.
Give me my baby!
We will stay with her.
Don't worry.
Go find the baby.
I'm going now.
I'll get him back.
I'm coming.
I'm coming with you!
Lie back.
Chester will get him.
You haven't called the police?
About the couple in the car?
No, no.
Good.
I need you to
take me back there.
Was there anyone else
in the car?
Just them.
I didn't do it...
I didn't do it.
It was the woman,
with... with the baby.
We'll take you
to a doctor, okay?
Can you please
tell me what happened first?
It was a good day, wasn't it?
Yes.
It was.
It's nice to keep your mind
on other things.
Asako-san...
I would like some more broth.
Yes, of course.
Right away.
What are you doing?
Stay back.
I'll go in myself.
Then what?
She'll just give you the baby?
My baby isn't Taizo.
The baby she wants
is from 25 years ago.
Do you still have
the picture on you?
I haven't forgotten it.
I just need you to do it.
She must have hidden here
for months.
Preparing.
Carving stones,
waiting for the baby to come.
Sutras on the walls...
No.
Not sutras.
Names.
Her ancestors.
Your ancestors.
Dozens of them.
She's preparing for a burial.
I have to go. Now.
Go where?
The limestone quarry.
The stones are from
the other side of the woods.
I know the path from here.
No, listen, boy.
There's a better way.
We just need some time.
There is no time.
She's taken my child.
Now, please,
promise me you'll give
the picture to Luz's abuela.
God damn you.
The trees
in the photo of you in Japan.
They're the same as here.
She's here, I know it.
How much farther?
Yuko-san.
Pop, no!
Find Ma! We need
another picture.
Hold this.
Do not let go.
A sutra?
Why?
Pop, no, she'll possess you.
We tried that at camp.
It didn't work.
It did work.
It trapped her.
Until we burnt it off.
Now, go!
Get out of here.
Aah!
Chester!
Run!
No!
Chester!
The grave.
She went in the grave!
Oh, my god...
Henry.
Henry!
Hen...
Come on.
Get the baby!
Go. Go.
Asako-san.
Asako-san, come on.
Come on.
The sutras...
My father brought them.
They trap the spirit.
Luz, stay back!
Stop, Ma! Stop!
Stop!
Ma, stop!
She can't be killed!
We can't destroy her.
Her spirit will never rest.
She'll find a way somehow.
Chester...
Maybe there is a way.
Chester!
Son?
Stop dreaming.
Are you taking the photo or not?
Okay. Good.
I never told anyone this before.
Do you know why
I became a fisherman?
I thought that's all there was.
No.
I became a fisherman
because in the water,
there's none of the cares
of the world over there.
I was a bachelor here
for so long,
I named my boat "Taro."
"First-born son."
But when your mother came over,
and we adopted you,
the most miraculous
thing happened.
I felt the same calmness.
When I held my boy in my hands,
all the cares of the world
vanished.
My taro.
I think today,
I'm going to sail out
into the ocean...
far, far away from the world
and all its troubles.
Come on.
Let's go together.
I can't, Pop.
I've got too much to do.
I understand.
How about taking
one more picture?
Something to remember this day?
Yeah.
Sure.
You got it?
Yeah.
I got it.
Shh.
Hey...
it's time to say goodbye
to your ojichan.
I wish he could've been with us
a little longer,
see the war end,
maybe even see
your mom and I settle down.
You know what his name is, son?
Henry.
Yeah. Just like yours.
Yamato-san!
It's Genzo.
Ah, little Genzo.
Look at you.
Where were you?
Manzanar.
My whole family.
You?
Colinas de Oro,
but now I am in Hawaii,
with my great nephew.
Everybody there Japanese.
We went to Indiana.
No one there is Japanese,
but that's where
a farm took us in.
Hey, Mama.
Save some for the
others, Yamato-san.
I can barely keep up.
You make these?
Yeah.
Oh my.
Enjoy.
Hey.
No appetite?
Bad memories.
I hate that every time
I come back to see my people,
it gives me nightmares.
But your babies are beautiful.
I want to adopt more.
I'd take them all
from the hospital
if I could.
Chester would
probably like that,
and little Henry too.
This is why we have Obon, son,
to remember,
not just the people we knew,
but the places we've been.
We have to make sure
we keep remembering, okay?
Or else we forget who we are.
Subtitles by explosiveskull
www.OpenSubtitles.org